+++
draft = false
date = 2025-11-01
title = "Tactics 300"
author = "Morgan"
+++
> Note:\
> _This is out of order in the series!_ \
> This is going to be a really dark one. Fair warning. If you haven't read the tactics series, they're all under Advice in the [archives](/archives). We're definitely jumping ahead a bit here.

This lesson is about resource denial and losing.

In strategy games, a major consideration is resource denial. Any power you take away from your opponents, they cannot bring to bear against you later. Conversely, any power you destroy so they can't have it, you can't have it either. Best-practices resource denial involves denying your opponents resources that you could never use--you don't raze their fields if you want to take their city, you don't Stone Rain the land you want to Annex next turn, et cetera. Sometimes, it's expedient or otherwise necessary to violate best practices, as in almost every arena.

The tactics I talk about are mostly interpersonal and sociopolitical, because those are the areas I work in. This converts over easily enough. Let's talk about a real, fairly recent example.

Someone--let's call them Alpha--considered me an enemy in major part because I stood up for myself and others and would not take shit from them. I didn't consider them an active enemy at the time, I considered them more of a hazard to be stepped carefully around. 

They did their best to deny me resources. In order, they tried to oust me from a mutual space with a tactic known as [DARVO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DARVO), turn my friends against me with a combination of DARVO and misinformation/misrepresentation of me and my actions, oust my two closest allies in that space with DARVO again, and actively trigger me to provoke a blowup that they could use to get me ousted.

They failed. 

They would not have failed if I hadn't been both good at what I do and _lucky._

DARVO failed because enough of the group knew me well enough to talk to me for explanations, which I provided, or just simply knew me well enough to know I was going to stand up to a bully every time I could. Misinformation and misrepresentation failed because enough of the group wouldn't take Alpha's words on faith and asked for explanations, which Alpha failed to provide in any kind of reasonable or coherent matter. Ousting my allies falied because I wasn't going to stand by and let them be hurt, and my allies there are sweet people who, frankly, it's astonishing that anyone could be DARVO'd into disliking. Triggering me into a blowup failed because they modeled me with limited data and as such made some incorrect conclusions on what could potentially hurt me, and because I recognized what they were doing and responded in a way calculated to let Alpha dig their own hole.

I, at every turn, had to be alert, aware, and willing to defend myself and others. I had to be aware of what resources they were trying to deny me, what resources they were drawing on, and act accordingly. It took _months_ of abusive behaviour before I was able to "win", by which I mean have an actual case the mods would listen to rather than brushing off, and on the way out, Alpha did everything they could to hurt me. They were, and as of most recent data still are, an agent of the abyss, whether or not they think that of themself.

There were times I thought I was likely to lose, to get ousted, to get considered an abuser and an evil person by friends and spaces I care about. I evaluated it as too high-risk to take any preemptive action, but I would be lying if I said I hadn't considered it.

Sun Tzu said "in the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them." 

From a tactical perspective, the inverse is true. If you have lost, truly and irrevocably, to raze the fields is the only recourse you _have._ If you are to be an asset to the abyss knowingly, to commit yourself fullstack to the cause of entropy, if you know this is going to be you if you don't do something--your only option is to do something.

"Something" there can be to leave, to get out, to cheat the situation.\
If you do this long enough, if you become _good enough at this shit,_ if you become a creature whose skills could serve the abyss and you do not want to do that, you are forced to think of the situations where the only "something" there is is to force them to kill you. Raze the fields. Deny them every resource you can on your way out.\
I know exactly what it would take for me.

I wasn't thinking of any kind of response of that proportion when I thought the likelihood of losing a space to some dipshit abuser on the internet was high, but having thought about that response, what it would take for me to remove myself as a resource, was...

It was, in this case, a prerequisite to victory. I had spent a very long time and a lot of energy evaluating what resources I could deny Alpha, and what resources I _should._ That was assisted by having built heuristics ahead of time from experience and metacognition. It wasn't that it was ever on the table: 

it's, rather simply, that I had to build the table.

> Endnote:\
> Those heuristics are...let's be real, thinking about what it would take to be forced into a situation where killing yourself is the best outcome is not something that is healthy for most. I don't recommend it, especially not at the 100 level, wink wink nudge nudge at the bit I'm doing about Tactics Class. I have rebuilt large swaths of myself from first principles. I am deeply and truly Not Normal.\
> I needed to commit this to page now because it was on my mind. Without grokking "collapsing the timeline", thinking about what it would take to kill yourself for resource denial is only capable of being unhealthy.
