+++
date = '2025-12-12'
title = '5, 10, and a Little Bit of Magic'
author = 'A'
+++

I've been talking, right, about writing a spotter's guide to 5&10s for a while, and it hasn't really been _flowing,_ and that's fine. It's frustrating, admittedly, but that's a me problem. 

I dig into my pancake, take a bite, gesture with my fork and swallow. So I was talking, last night, with my colleague, and the topic of writing in general came up, and I said something and then I realized this morning that it'd been where I've gone wrong.

I said, "I have a policy, where I do every essay that I can in one go, because if I don't I will never fuckin finish anything." And I realized I had been trying really, really hard to make sure the spotter's guide was _perfect._ I'd fuckin contacted Ra--[Demons from the 5&10verse!](https://voidgoddess.org/2023/03/27/demons-from-the-510verse/) changed my life--about maybe picking its brain a little. I was really invested in making it perfect. Yeah, I know, A's a perfectionist, water is wet, bears shit in the woods. 

I set down my fork, push my plate to the side so I have more room to talk with my hands. When I write an essay and I'm _not_ satisfied with it enough to call finished, I generally just...sit on it, a day or three, and then open the document split-screen with an empty one, and I take the kernel and I rewrite _everything._

So: that's what I'm doing, today. This isn't a spotter's guide. This isn't a manual. This isn't, quite, a lesson, either.

If I take a $5 and a $10 out, and I put them on the table, and I say you can have either of them--well, you might trust me, and take the $10. It's unequivocally the better option. $10 is more than $5.

> Well, what if the $10 is poisoned? What if it’s counterfeit? Why would someone give me the option of taking it if the other option is better? Are they trying to trick me? What are they trying to trick me with? Is this like Newcomb’s Problem? Is this a boobytrap? Am I being set up by Omega? Are there cameras rolling?
>
> Ra, _Demons from the 5&10verse!_

This was, I think, what really hooked me when I first really read _Demons._ I'm not on Twitter or Lesswrong, I'd literally never heard of MIRI, AI was uninteresting to me at the time, and 'demon summoning' wasn't a concept I was ready for as a serious thing, but hearing this line echo so clearly how I would think about situations like this was like watching a video essay about something you've never heard about because someone said it was a good essay, being kind of disengaged and thinking about clicking off, and then at the end of the intro the writer says your full name and tells you "this matters to you, even if you don't realize it yet." 

Something I've noticed, talking to people I've introduced to the concept of 5&10s, is that they're really fucking hard to see from inside for most folk. I could give you a list of how I loosely type them when I see them in others. I thought about that. That was going to be the spotter's guide--"forewarned is forearmed", and all that. 

Or, instead, I could try to teach a little magic.

See, right, I've kind of steered away from talking about this shit as magic, recently, because I know it grates for a lot of people for a lot of reasons, and right now my audience, on the whole, has to kind of...caveat, that shit like "scrying" is just jargon and not Actually Magic, that when I say magic I mean the soft science of intentional self and metacognition, and that's...fine? It's not ideal, but I can work with it.

So: I ask you, dear reader, to suspend any disbelief for a second, stop paying attention to the voice that says 'but what if' in the corner of your ear, stop translating what I'm saying to Normal Rational Statements, and just listen.

When you are offered two options, and one of them is clearly better, you look for the trap. This is a survival strategy. Everyone's heard "there's no such thing as a free lunch". Why, you ask yourself, would they be offering these if one of them is clearly better for me? What's the reason to take the 5?

This is when you either scry or conjure. These are not mutually exclusive.

If you offer me $5 and $10, I'm going to scry your intentions. I will look at you, and I will ask myself, plain and simple, "what does my model say this being would do?" And this is dangerous! This only ever pans out for me because I have really good models and assholes cannot seem to resist trying to hurt me! I've thought about stopping, but there are so many problems with that.

The reason this is dangerous is because of conjuration.  

"What if," you might ask, "the 10 is poisoned?" And by entertaining that possibility in good faith, you have conjured that demon. There is now, in your head, a world where the 10 is poisoned. You might reject it, but you've still _made that world in your head,_ where you would die if you take the $10, and that's going to affect your reasoning. "What if," you might ask, "the 5 is lucky?" And by entertaining that possibility in good faith, _you have conjured that demon._ This is why OCD delusions are self-perpetuating, by the way--once they enter your cognition, to engage in good faith with them _at all,_ even to debunk them, is to conjure that world.

Now, if you come about conjuration by way of scrying, the flavour's often a little different. This is the one I've found myself still pretty vulnerable to, because I'm still engaging with "what's the reason to take the 5?" This is the one where I look at this being offering me the 5 and the 10, and I say, "what does my model say this being would do," and if I don't find a reason for them to be offering this choice, I will _conjure one._ Maybe my friend is testing me. Maybe my colleague secretly hates me and if I take the 10 she'll reveal that and then I gotta deal with those repercussions. Maybe I'm deathly allergic to something in the 10, and they know that and I don't, because they want me to hurt.

Once you land on a really convincing demon, it writes all others out and substitutes itself into your model. "Really," it says, "suffering like that felt really good." Other parts of your model may say "I should never suffer like that again." It's a stress fracture in infancy in the absolute best-case scenario. In the case I see, so, so fucking often, the demon cannibalizes the rest of the model. "I could never leave behind this thing that hurts me," the demon says, and you parrot every word, "*because--*"

The exacts don't really matter. It's a conjured reason to take the worse option. It will, in the end, do everything it possibly can to convince you and _keep you convinced._

Now, with asking "what does my model say this being would do?" every time I get offered two options, giving that up is a risk I cannot take. It's a survival strategy. It's threat modeling. It's necessary. It's something I need.

***It's the fucking demon again.***

This is something I was thinking about, this morning, and I recognized the chain. It might suck, a little, but it's actually the 10, right? Being hurt by people trying to trick me is so much worse, so obviously it's the 10. This demon pastes over the fact that the way my models _work_ mean they will _tell me_ if something's a threat. By asking, I am opening myself to more demons. So I'll stop asking, simple-as.

This is how you fight them. There is no working with the conjured demons of your own doubt and fear--all they want, in the end, is to eat you alive. When I make any choice, if my model doesn't _scream_ at me and tell me what's wrong, I will take the option my [recognition](/glossary#recognition) says is better. I'm a capable mage; I pay attention. I won't conjure the demon of "what if my recognition leads me wrong", because here's the thing, right--to know the whole of the future with perfect certainty is not something you can do, but pattern recognition and thus the Art of it are rooted in the past, and you've _lived_ through the past, it's how you got here and now. There are two options, and one is the demon.

What if my recognition leads me wrong?

***What if it doesn't?***
